In the last video, we had to pass a dynamic element in our link
and that led to a path which had to be constructed like this, not really that convenient especially if
that gets longer. Thankfully vuejs or the vue router offers a better possibility or a better way
of doing that,
we can give our route names. So in the routes.js file, I can assign a name to this route by simply
adding name here and I'll name it user edit for example,
now choose any name you like,
this is just one example here.
So user edit is now the name of this route
and I can now identify this route by name which means that on any page wherever I set up a link, for
example in user detail, I can now change this to pass an object instead of a string,
of course you need the colon for that,
otherwise you're not able to pass an object
and in this object you got a couple of properties to define which path you want to navigate to.
And you could set a path here and do the same thing from before,
well it would not really save you some time but you can add path here, just that you know that but
you can also say name and the name was used edit as a string.
Now this is the name, of course I set up here and now vuejs will automatically populate this real
path then with the path it extracts from this named route,
this is the cool thing, we don't have to type the full path.
I can now pass a second argument here which has the name params,
this is a key vuejs will recognize
which again is an object where I can now pass key value pairs of the parameters I want to pass to this
path
because of course, this specific path here needs to get an ID.
So in my params object here, I simply say ID and this is now route.params.id, like this, much easier. If
I now save this and go to just /user/1,
you see if we click edit user, it still goes to User 1 edit
but now, we had much less effort in setting this up,
it's much easier to edit and to manage.
The important thing here is you could use this set up in any router link,
you can always pass an object too, as you saw you could also use an object to just set the path and
it's the same object you can pass when having your routing happen in code like we do here.
When I push this path, I could instead also pass an object and set up a path like this or also use a
named route here,
so if I gave my home route a name here, let's say I assigned a name
home to it, then I can go here and simply use name home, just like this and I could pass params here
too if this route expected once.
And you will see, if I now reload this and click go to home,
it still works,
now with a named route and passing an object. Two powerful features which make routing much more convenient.